hello it's Ruby and today I'm going to
be giving you some tips on how to revise
the history these are things that I did
last year when I was studying for my
edexcel GCSE and it was through using
these methods that I was able to walk
out with 100% so I didn't drop a single
mark I'm not saying this to show off but
I hope that will demonstrate that these
tips really do work I'm going to start
by talking about how to format your
notes and then I will go into specific
revision strategies so writing notes of
course this will vary depending on the
exam board but when I was writing my
notes I made sure that they narrowed the
essay structure which I would be writing
within the actual exam for example a
family question in an excel was give two
key features in the life of something
and so in my notes underneath each key
person I would write down two key
features and then I will plant all of my
information about the person under one
of these two headings I found to be much
better than just writing general notes
just bill appointing the information
because when you do learn from these
notes you are figuratively learning your
essay so of course one of the key things
in any history question is going to be
called in a fact and so I kept this in
mind when I was writing my notes for
each apply then I had the headings
Keitha in which I included the date and
the geographical location and then I
have causes short-term effect and
long-term effect I then additionally had
subheadings each of the specific
Corden's and FAQ as before this meant
that I was learning those which could
directly be applied to an essay and they
are also ideal for if somebody is going
to be testing you on your notes or if
your age be testing yourself so a visual
channel fair or the Cuban Missile Crisis
crew set of course you will diminish the
calculus
a hot moment between Russia and Iraq
very good
now you're going to be more detail about
the limited test ban treaty well the
truth is upon all been running three I
did find having to be really useful
especially in the early days of revision
but the number one thing which is
important for history revision is
earthly practice on the lead up to my
GCSE is I was doing two history essay
today and whilst it may sound daunting
at first it actually isn't too bad
because once you're into this thing of
it it becomes a lot easier and this is
something I suggest that you do yourself
the first you are going to be quite
tricky but if you schedule it into your
timetable at the same time every day
then you're not going to procrastinate
with it it's just going to become a
regulated part with your study timetable
and once you start doing frequent essays
they become so much easier it really
doesn't even take that long you probably
put aside one hour of your day just to
focus on history practice and you don't
even have to do two essays you could do
one having done so many athlete
actresses I was not stressed in the exam
and this meant that I to perform my very
best one thing I do recommend is doing
the hardest essay questions that you can
I also suggest when you're first
starting out with revision to do at the
clouds as opposed to full essays full
assays when you don't know all of the
knowledge specifically is going to take
a lot longer and it's going to be
difficult for you should be the
undersigned condition every times can be
really beneficial because they're able
to ascertain knowledge and make sure
that you actually know what you're going
to be talking about during the essay on
the other hand is more about exam
technique it's really important in
history essay to include specific
knowledge so dates key people and
statistic this is able to show off the
examiner that you actually do know what
you're talking about
however I do realize it's viewed from
sometimes be quite tricky to learn so
I'm in the air through these and I've
trying I'm giving you some tips on how
you learn each one with statistics it's
important not to overwhelm yourself but
you want to learn a found on reverse
statistics which can be used in a
variety of different essays this next
tip will hopefully help you to decide
which facts you are actually going to
learn when I was writing Rio de Janeiro
I'm making note of anything that it
would be did have statistic for super
example if I were doing an essay about
nineteen
Communications in America I might think
passionate to include exactly how many
Americans owned a telephone so I had an
ongoing list of relevant statistics it's
much better to do this going along than
to rely solely on Eurovision because it
ensures that you're not going to learn
the fact that is useless or would not
actually be relevant in an essay so
looking at your statistic list if you
have way too many when it comes to exam
season then just go through the pen and
cross out the ones which are going to be
used in that many essays so next let's
talk about key people what I would do is
write the key person and then underneath
bullet point the events that they're
most famous for so for example if i were
doing kennedy i'm i write down their
Pigs invasion and the Cuban Missile
Crisis you look at events that you have
already studied the causes and effects
or things that could come up in an essay
and if the individual was involved in
the event you just write the event
underneath when you're being tested on
this make sure that you go both ways so
in one way you can be tested is which
events is currently involved in and then
you would state them but the other way
that you want to do it is saying they
have taken invasion and then you having
to name the key people who are involved
with that going both ways means that
your brain is going to make stronger
links between them as the third and
final thing is dates which is the thing
that history is most famous for
chronology is one of the most important
things for any essay and any history
exam I use a game of sorts to remember
mine and actually it was probably the
most enjoyable thing that I have
revision wise I would do this for about
10 minutes every day and I actually
would look forward to it so on one side
of my flash card I write the event and
on the other I would write the date then
I would have to arrange the card so that
I had all of the events in chronological
order and then I could check it using
the other side of the card so likewise
these flash cards can be used ordinarily
to just catch yourself on specific dates
really there is nothing worse than
getting your chronology wrong in an
essay because it greatly reducing how
coherent your essay is and this can
drastically affect your grade so I
recommend spending a fair amount of
revision time on chronology so thank you
so much for watching for all those
people who do have their history GCSEs
this summer I wish you the best of luck
and I hope that these tips are able to
help you to achieve your very best I
remember I post new videos every
today and stay tuned of the next few
months for more videos relating to exam
which of course is known of of exam
season so thank you again and have
productive week